don't do things serially
spray and pray doesn't work either
start early and build a network
make sure everyone strong knows you


Tristan Dan Le
Hi Pete, I am slowly doing the searching for coding job but focusing on the Web & finance coding job because I am taking, part time, financial quantitative program at  University  in my local area. For now I don't have any support for the job search, but myself, I have been applied many different places and am still waiting for the responses.
Pete Carapetyan
Will your new coding job replace current employment? Or are you also dependent on this new job to pay for basic necessities?
The reason I ask is because it might affect the type of search and how you approach this.
Tristan Dan Le
Yes, my current employement is not a coding job. Therefore, I need to find a job related to my coding field. Of course, I will certainly dependent on my new job to support my daily necessities, but only in the next few months or so.
May I know what kind the type of search you may think  that can be affected ?
Pete Carapetyan
Let me use myself as an example, and perhaps that will paint the picture.
Ideally, I would wish to build relationships first with the kinds of company I would like to work for, and then use these relationships, over time, to get the best fit. For example, I would like to do a certain type of coding, with a certain kind of company, and in an area that I felt comfortable. But this would take time.
So in that situation I would need to have a job to support me as I began making these contacts, and developing these relationships. And of course, the necessary research that was required.
In this situation I might make $40k more on a starting salary, if I was fortunate and built good relationships.
However, all of the above would depend on being able to support myself for the duration of these activities.
So If that wasn’t the case, and I just had to get a job as quick as I could to keep a roof over my head, I might search for someone that was less targeted in their search for employees, and was just hiring guys to start out.  This work would probably be less satisfying - and probably slower to advance into the field I wanted to go into.
Especially in your situation, if you can find a way to nurture relationships in the right company you might be able to target your search to the most suitable places to grow your career as a coder

